---
layout: default
title: About
---
<h2 id="intro">About the author and this site.</h2>

<div class="post">
h1. The Author

My name is Michael Bo-lin Wong or 王柏林, depending on what language you prefer. I am 22, live in San Francisco, and work for Applied Predictive Technologies as a business consultant. I recently graduated from Harvard University, earning a bachelors in physics with highest honors. I grew up in Hong Kong.

I like a lot of things, but especially analyzing large datasets, building software, thinking about product design, economics, and human computation. For example, my favorite class at Harvard was "CS186 - Economics and Computation":http://http://www.seas.harvard.edu/courses/cs186/. 

During college summers, I crunched data for "Freakonomics author Steve Levitt":http://greatestgood.com and also at i"McKinsey & Co":http://mckinsey.com. While school was in session, I worked as a research assistant at the Harvard Physics Department and a teaching fellow for Harvard's "CS51":http://cs51.seas.harvard.edu.

My proudest achievements so far include designing an online social events calendar for Harvard, leading an effort to reform residential life at my boarding high school, travelling alone through India, and performing with an orchestra as a solo bassoonist. 

More seriously, I like food from all corners of the world. I enjoy pinot noir, puer tea, and decaffienated coffee. Friends generally classify my musical taste as "indie", but I enjoy classical, jazz, and occasionally rap as well. 

My politics are best described as pragmatic. Broadly speaking, I am a social liberal and a fiscal moderate. If I am unsure about a topic, I generally defer to The Economist newspaper. 

h1. The Site

I write on no particular schedule and about no definite range of topics. My posts range in length from a single sentence to several printed pages. More often than not, I write about technology, culture, music, travel, and ideas, punctuated with accounts of major happenings in my life. 

The design of this site comes from "Alex Payne":http://al3x.net. I currently host this weblog on Linode and use the "Jekyll":http://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/tree/master static site generation system. 

h1. Elsewhere

You can find me on a variety of social web sites; my username is either "mbwong" or "berlinwong". Alphabetically:

* "GitHub":http://github.com/mbwong -- code, waiting for you to improve it.
* "LinkedIn":http://www.linkedin.com/pub/michael-wong/25/547/850 -- all business.
* "Twitter":http://twitter.com/mbwong -- brief status updates and observations.

h1. Contact

Feel free to email me. Please write <a href="mailto:berlin.wong@gmail.com">berlin.wong@gmail.com</a>.
</div>
