---
layout: default
title: Books & Talks
---
<h2 id="intro">Projects I've worked on.</h2>

<div class="post">

h1. Code

* _2012_ -- "Unfriendio":http://scratch.mbwong.com/unfriendio
  Unfriendio identifies your least active friends on Facebook. It runs completely in javascript and gets data directly from the Facebook API without going through third-party servers, so you don't have to worry about anyone snooping on your data. "Github link.":https://github.com/mbwong/unfriendio.html

* _2012_ -- "Place Pulse":http://pulse.media.mit.edu
  Place Pulse is an MIT Media Lab project that crowdsources surveys to internet participants, asking binary perception questions across a large number of geotagged images. I've been working on the ranking and photo selection algorithms. "Github link.":https://github.com/philsalesses/Place-Pulse

* _2010-2012_ -- "Eventplease":http://eventplease.com
  My first attempt at a web startup. Eventplease is an online calendar originally made just for Harvard College with the goal of making campus events more accessible and easily shared. 

* _2010_ -- "Harvard Hong Kong Society":http://hhks.org
  I was president of the Hong Kong Society and I remade the website using Wordpress.

* _2007_ -- "Pelican Online":http://pelican.sps.edu
  My first website and the first online edition of my high school's newspaper. The website has since been redesigned.

h1. Some older essays

* _Oct 2011_ -- A eulogy for my grandmother

* _2007_ -- Residential Life at St. Paul's School
  A policy diagnosis for the residential life program at St. Paul's. 

* _2006_ -- The Looks of St. Paul’s 
  A thought piece on architecture on campus published in the school newspaper. Amongst the various newspaper articles I wrote as a high schooler, this one is closest to my heart. 

* _2003_ -- My application to Philips Exeter Academy at age 14. 
  "Look out any window in your home. What would you change what you see?" I was rejected, but this remains one of my proudest essays.



</div>
