--- 
tags: 
- data
- internet
- social data
- online advertising
title: Why Zuck's law is not the new Moore's law
layout: post
---
# Why Zuck's law is not the new Moore's law

When [Mark Zuckerberg spoke here at
Harvard](http://articles.cnn.com/2011-11-07/tech/tech_social-media_zuckerberg-
harvard-speech_1_mark-zuckerberg-facebook-s-zuckerberg-facebook-s-andrew-
noyes?_s=PM:TECH) a couple weeks ago, he noted a trend that the amount of
things each user shares on Facebook has roughly doubled every year.

It wasn't the first time he mentioned it. "Zuck's law", as it as become known,
has not only been written about in
[Techcrunch](http://techcrunch.com/2011/07/06/mark-zuckerberg-explains-his-
law-of-social-sharing-video/), but also the
[Economist](http://www.economist.com/blogs/babbage/2011/09/facebook) and the
[NYTimes](http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/23/zuckerbergs-unspoken-law-
sharing-and-more-sharing/). Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg talks about it
[here](http://www.economist.com/blogs/theworldin2012/2011/11/technology-
powering-individuals).

So is this the new [Moore's
law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moores_law%20%20)? Is this a prediction that
will parallel the one made by the founder of Intel 46 years ago that the
number of transistor at minimum cost that fit in the same area will double
every two years? Will Zuck's law become a industry target, just as Moore's law
did? Will Facebook race to make sharing exponentially easy, just as microchip
companies raced to produce ever smaller and more efficient transistors that
meets Moore's forecast?

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lv90b74il51r3oiuq.png)

Here's why I don't think Zuck's law works the same way Moore's law does.

**Sharing is not a commodity**

Unlike computation, shared information is not fungible. When you run a
program, it doesn't matter where the chip came from. All that matters is the
cost and the speed.

Shared information is an amazingly heterogeneous good, though. It matters
where that information comes from. Consider two scenarios: 1) your best friend
from you shared a linked to a website he made especially for you and 2) an
acquaintance said happy birthday. Would the value of the two kinds of shared
information be the same?

Furthermore, when computing became exponentially cheap, the demand just rose
to meet it. Similarly, when humans invented electricity, or found oil in the
ground, demand just rose to meet the supply.

But Zuck's law is very different. If you exponentially increase the supply of
shared information, the demand cannot catch up. The amount of shared things
that a human can process is bounded by time.

Shared information is more like books. Consumers can only read a bounded
amount. They care who wrote it, and how. They care about its quality.

**Undiscerning "frictionless sharing" may result in worse content**

The problem with "frictionless sharing" is that blindly inflating the supply
of certain shared material by allowing apps like [Spotify](http://www.spotify.
com/us/start/?utm_source=spotify&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=start) or
[Washington Post Social Reader](http://www.washingtonpost.com/socialreader)
populate feeds can result in worse content.

That's because friction is an useful signal. Compare: 1) a personal message
that my friend took the time to write on my wall and 2) the songs Spotify
played on shuffle and automatically posted while I was in the shower. The
former required more much "friction" but it is obviously more valuable. Yet,
right now on my Timeline, the two things get the same treatment.

Don't believe me? Take a look at my developer preview of Timeline, which has
become littered with songs and articles I never really liked or wanted to
share. They almost look like advertisements. Is this the future of Facebook?

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lv7e1zGpLc1r3oiuq.png)

**To succeed, Facebook must provide not the most, but the best social content**

Like it or not, Facebook is and has always been in the business of content
creation. The key to its enormous success has been its ability to get its
users to generate hugely interesting content, most notably through photo
tagging. Facebook succeeded because it wasn't cluttered the way Myspace was.

I don't mind Facebook allowing Washington Post or Spotify to post content, but
the content must be displayed in the right way.

Without innovative user design, simply letting apps automatically populate
feeds can make Facebook's social content worse than before. The data deluge as
predicted by Zuck's law can harm Facebook's user experience.

So Facebook's mission shouldn't simply be make sharing easier the same way
that Intel made computation cheap. Facebook must continue to innovate
algorithms and designs that provide the best social content, just as Google
labors to provide the best search content.

Furthermore, Google has been insistent to not allow any website to hijack the
quality of its search results. If Facebook wishes to provide the best social
content, it must not favor its business partner's data either.

Readers, leave a comment. What do you think of Facebook's "frictionless
sharing"?

