--- 
tags: personal
title: My Mother
layout: post
published: false
---

Ten years ago, a war consumed my hometown and my mother fought relentlessly in it. 

At the time Google was the new hot thing, not yet IPO'ed; Mark Zuckerberg was still in high school. We still got their news primarily on network TV.  I was thirteen, my sister eight.  It was an age of innocence for us.  Our lives were concerned with small and inconsequential things such as middle school friend groups and piano practice, until an event beyond our comprehension swept our innocence away. 

That event was SARS.  Overnight Hong Kong turned into a ghost town.  All the schools shut down.  Supermarkets were emptied.  Everywhere the city stank with the fear of death.  With no knowledge of how the disease transmitted, we feared that breathing in the wrong place or in the wrong fashion might kill you.  The entire populace sullenly hid their faces behind protective masks.  

Our only window to the world was TV. Every day the telecasters would announce the the death toll as it climb day by day. 

As an ICU doctor trained to tackle difficult cases, my mother had chosen to be on the team caring for the several victims in her hospital.  

We wondered how Mother’s day was going in the hospitals. I hated being severed from the world and stuck in the apartment.  But, after hours of local television I realized that I wasn’t really all alone and that I wasn’t the only one in the world wondering about and worrying for the doctors and nurses.  As the city-dwellers condemned the health officials’ poor decision-making, so did I.  When another major outbreak occurred, my heart sank along with that of many other inhabitants of Hong Kong.  I grieved as the city lamented the deaths of eight medical professionals and rejoiced as the city celebrated the end to the outbreak.  Sitting in front of the big black box in the living room, I realized for the first time that I was involved in something larger than myself, and that I belonged to a larger collective beyond my family or my group of friends.

One evening, however, she came home and announced that she had decided to transfer from her unit to Princess Margaret Hospital, the epicenter of the SARS storm, where extra hands were desperately needed, as a massive influx of patients had infected tens of doctors and nurses.  This pronouncement left us dumbfounded, because it was far beyond her call of duty.  Little was known about the disease’s contagiousness and mortality; the ramifications could prove devastating.  She would have to subject herself to quarantine, leaving the family behind indefinitely.  We were apprehensive, but we appreciated the fact that Mother wanted to fight for the cause and did not object.

The night before she left for the frontline, my mother, my sister, and I squeezed one another, none of us fully comprehending the magnitude of what was to come. My mother had decided to volunteer and answer the call of duty. It was a defining moment of my childhood and it inspires me to this day. 

This realization, along with being awe-inspired by my mother’s heroism, marked a turning point in my life.  Because of this event, I matured from the quiet kid who would curl up in his room reading his favorite articles in a science encyclopedia to a lively aspiring scholar who engages in many communal activities.  I began to read the newspaper contemplatively, form opinions about current events, and became involved with my school’s debate team and school governance.  These interests continued as I entered boarding school, as I earned the positions of student newspaper editor and debate team captain.  For the past two years, I have written numerous editorials about school policy.  Last May, I authored a ten-page proposal about improving the school’s Residential Life program, which has precipitated several reforms in the curriculum.

To experience a parent risking her own life and leaving her children to save the lives of others has informed my sense of what I want to be.  I want to be an active contributor in society.  For three years now, my home has been a New England prep school on the other side of the globe.  Here, leaves are falling and light breezes blow through the window.  As I reflect and count my many blessings—the blessing of a happy family and a wonderful education—I am pleased to know that I have made a difference in this school community that I belong to. 
